---
title: Inviting Bruce to Speak
weight: 40
---

I enjoy speaking at events, in companies and to user groups, and take every
opportunity I can to do so. Especially if I'm already traveling to a location,
I like to add speaking into the mix whenever I can.

Because I live in the mountains, about 4.5 hours from the Denver airport,
travel is a significant investment for me, and this limits the number of trips
I can make (presentation preparation is also a factor). Also, once I'm
traveling (see the [Event List](/events)), it's easier to add more stops than
to go home and make a new trip.

Enthusiasm is key -- if your group is enthusiastic, that energy goes a long way
in making the trip go smoothly and effortlessly. I love to be where I am really
wanted. If your event feels right to me, I will make every effort to be there.
If there is an honorarium (in addition to travel expenses), that is helpful
but not essential -- an exceptional experience is what really motivates me.

When planning the trip, see if it's possible to add extra-curricular
activities, such as visits to companies, business incubators, hacker spaces,
bookstore signings, and other places/activites of interest.

I am happy, and even prefer, to stay in someone's guest room rather than a
hotel, which often saves money.

I'm especially interested in trying new experiments. The more interesting the
experiment, the more I will want to participate. For example, I can help you
create and organize an [open-spaces event](
http://wintertechforum.com/open-spaces/); I have had over ten years of
experience creating my own open-spaces conferences.

# Travel Expenses

I ask that all my travel expenses are covered. This includes:

1. Driving from Crested Butte to Denver and back (500 miles at the standard US
IRS rate of 54.5 cents per mile = $273).

2. The Denver Airport hotel the night before domestic flights and the night
after international flights, which includes the cost of parking during the
trip. This is usually in the range of $200-$300.

3. Incidental travel expenses like trains, cabs and visa fees.

4. Hotels and meals.

# Domestic Travel (within the continental U.S.)

I don't love to fly (and only fly on jetliners; no smaller planes), so I try my
best to get nonstop flights. Fortunately, Southwest Airlines has a hub in
Denver which produces nonstop flights to almost everywhere, and they are also
quite inexpensive. On occasion, other airlines are required, and in that case I
ask for the fewest number of segments on the largest possible jets.

If you're in Colorado, Utah or New Mexico it's often just as easy
for me to drive.

# International Travel

When I travel internationally, I ask to be flown business class on airliners
where the business-class seats fold flat.

For Europe this means British Airways or Lufthansa because they have nonstop
flights from Denver to Heathrow or Frankfurt, respectively, and then a single
additional flight to the final destination.

Other international destinations must be negotiated on a case-by-case basis.

I sincerely apologize for this requirement, and if you can't manage it, I
completely sympathize. I know it is expensive, but being able to sleep in
comfort is what motivates me onto the plane in the first place. For community
conferences that are paying my expenses, however, I only ask for expenses and
don't ask for a stipend.

# Inquiries

Check the [Event list](/events) for conflicts. You may also find that an event is
already scheduled in your area and you can add yours while I'm there, so I can
do it in a single trip.

To inquire, contact me via <mindviewinc@gmail.com>. Please give details about
your event and what you hope I can speak about, or how I can otherwise
contribute. Please try to allow as much lead time as possible.
